So mapping Go is gonna be similar to what
we think of is kind of like an object
in JavaScript,
an object shape with key value pairs.
In this example here on line seven,
we're establishing that we're creating
a variable called userEmails.
And the type is gonna be a map
instead of a slicer in array.
And the type signature now
has two different values.
The value in the hard brackets
indicates what type is the key, and
the value on the right is
what type is the value.
So here we're looking at an object type
structure that has keys that are ints and
values that are strings.
And on lines nine and ten,
we're setting those values.
So on our userEmails map, a key of one
will have a value of user1@gmail.com.
And a key of two will have
a value of user2@gmail.com.
Cool.
So let's add this into code here and
we'll see what happens.
And hop over to my maps.go file.
And grab.
Code here.
Cool.
So similar to the slide.
We're setting up ideally
an empty space for a map.
And then we're assigning a couple
variables to it, values to it,
excuse me, run the code.
And you'll notice that we're
getting a panic error,
assignment to entry in mil map.
An error we're seeing here is for
the exact same reason we saw
the error in our slice example.
So because we have a map, Go knows that at
some point I'm gonna have a bunch of key
value pairs but I have no idea how
many you're gonna start this out with.
So in order to get us going with an actual
value, we need to use the make so
that Go knows to actually allocate some
sort of memory to put values in later.
So we can use make.
And then what are we making?
We're making a map with integers
as keys and strings as values.
Unlike slices, we don't have to tell
make how much space to allocate here.
And you'll see that it prints out
a map type with two key value pairs.
An obvious difference you'll notice right
off the bat compared to JavaScript is that
when this prints out,
you're looking at two hard brackets and
they're not comma separated.
But the pattern of having the key
value pair is very similar.
Similarly to when we were
talking about slices,
we can do this with a shorthand syntax.
We'll start with the shorthand syntax for
defining a variable,
userEmails, the type is a map in string.
And then we'll open it up with curly
braces to add our initial values.
So in here we have a key of one.
The value is set to user1@gmail.com,
and then user2@gmail.com
And because I'm not printing it,
we'll go ahead and copy line 12.
And you'll see that same output with
the two elements within our map.
Similar to JavaScript,
if we wanted to mutate or
modify these elements in any way,
we can simply say userEmails of key one.
And I want you to be user3@gmail.com.
So if we wanna modify our
userEmails in some capacity,
we can modify the element with a key of
one and change that to be user3@gmail.com.
Then when we print userEmails,
you will now see the updated value where
user1 is now, sorry, the element with
a key of one is user3@gmail.com.
Cool, so a super interesting
part about maps in Go is that Go
has a pretty unique way of verifying
whether or not an element exists in a map.
So to do that, we are going to set
our map lookup to a couple variables.
So what that looks like is let's
say we want to check out some sort
of first email, we're gonna set that
to a variable of userEmails of one.
If I print this guy.
You'll see we have user3@gmail.com.
So it's returning the value that I'm
getting when I look up key one of
userEmails.
What happens if I lookup
a key that doesn't exist?
Let's say we look up like four.
So there's no key four in our
userEmails map at the moment.
So notice I get nothing back.
So that's helpful in its own, right?
But it doesn't blow up.
We can still be like, okay,
that's a mil so do something about that.
But Go also provides a second argument
here, which is a Boolean that
indicates whether or not something
was there in the first place.
Cuz now we have two different variables.
And if I print out what is first email and
what is the okay variable,
we're gonna see that first
email is an empty string.
It's on the left of this
false that you can't see.
But on the right-hand side you
see this actual explicit false,
which is a kind of cool pattern of like,
just tell me if something's not there so
I can do something about it.
And really have a readable way to
figure out what's going on here.
Cool.
So let's kind of combine this syntax where
we were checking to see if something
exists in a map with the if blocks that
we talked about kind of earlier on today.
So if we're saying, okay, I'm looking
up some email in a user database.
And I wanna do something
with that if it exists,
we're gonna use the pattern that we also
see in for loops using the range keyword.
So on the left-hand side we have two
variables, the email and whether or
not that's present.
And we're setting that to a value
of user emails of index for
index one,
whatever index we're looking at.
And by index,
I mean a key amount, key value.
We're looking up userEmails
with a key of four,
semi colon, and then the word okay.
And so here what's happening is that
these two variables on the left-hand side
of the if are going to be assigned
to whatever gets reported back by
this map lookup of userEmails key of four.
Then it's like, all right, so if the okay,
this is actually the conditional
we're talking about.
If okay is true,
execute what's in these curly braces.
If okay is false, don't,
do something else.
So here we can say something like.
Email exists.
Else.
Email doesn't exist.
And we're back to an error that
says email is declared or not used.
And similarly to when we're
working with the for loop,
if we don't wanna use the actual email,
we can replace that with an underscore.
And we're seeing that hey, when you tried
to get a key a four from userEmails, okay,
return false.
So we hop back down to our else block,
which prints email does not exist.
The last topic about maps I'd like to
cover real quick is the method, delete.
And delete is gonna take two things, it's
gonna take what map are we talking about?
And what's the key we're looking for?
What do we wanna delete?
So here I'm saying, hey, in userEmails
find a key of two, and if it exists,
delete it.
And we'll finally print out our
last version of userEmails.
And you'll see that at the end of the day
here we've deleted that element with
a key of two.
And now we're down to just
one element in our map.